How can we be sure
that we will give a word
at the right time?
Well, one of the things
that will help us is described
by the apostle Paul in the book
of the first letter to the Corinthians.
If you turn with me, please,
to 1 Corinthians chapter 12,
and verse 25,
notice what Paul says to them:
“So that there should be
no division in the body,
“but its members should have
mutual concern
for one another.”
So notice that comment there,
“mutual concern for one another.”
If you look
at the [Kingdom] Interlinear,
you’ll notice that literally
the Greek says there
“to be anxious over one another.”
And it’s interesting
also for us to note
that this Greek word
translated here,
“mutual concern,”
is the same basic word
that’s used
in the book of Matthew
when recording what Jesus said
about not being anxious
about anything.
So that seems
a little unusual, doesn’t it?
Jesus tells us not to be anxious,
and yet Paul here tells us
to be anxious for one another.
How does that work?
Well, obviously, this word
has different meanings
or different connotations
in different settings.
It’s wrong for us to be anxious
about material things,
particularly if it shows
a lack of faith on our part.
But on the other hand,
it’s appropriate
that we should be anxious
or show concern
—a wholesome concern—
that motivates us to action
when we’re dealing
with our brothers and sisters.
If you turn over
to the book of Philippians,
you’ll notice that Paul uses
the same Greek word
when describing Timothy
at Philippians 2:20.
There he says:
“For I have no one else
“of a disposition like his
“who will genuinely care
for your concerns.”
So this expression
“genuinely care”
—the “care” part of it—
is the same Greek word
about being anxious for others.
And, of course,
that’s the same Greek word
that Paul used
in Philippians 4:6
where he said:
“Do not be anxious over anything.”
Now at this point,
you’re probably thinking:
‘How does this all work?
‘The same Greek word,
and yet we’re told
‘not to be anxious,
and yet at the same time
we’re told to be anxious
for one another.’
Well, maybe we could illustrate it
with the English word “jealousy.”
Normally,
the connotation we would get
from the word “jealousy”
is something negative,
but in certain situations
or circumstances
it can have a positive
or proper description.
Perhaps let’s take
a husband or a wife
who finds out that their mate
is starting to have
a wrong romantic attachment
to someone else.
Well, shouldn’t they have
a feeling of jealousy?
If they don’t,
there’s something wrong.
So in that situation,
jealousy is positive.
Well, in a similar way,
it’s wrong for us to be anxious
about material things,
trying to get ahead in the world,
and so on.
But it’s appropriate
that we have a wholesome,
positive anxiety or concern
for one another.
So, what is this positive,
wholesome concern?
Well, first of all,
let’s say what it isn’t.
First Peter 4:15,
you can check on that later,
but I’m sure you remember,
it says we should not be
“a busybody.”
So this anxious concern
doesn’t mean
that we’re trying to find out
everything about this person.
Then, also, 1 Timothy 5:13
speaks of “gossipers . . .
meddlers
in other people’s affairs.”
So if we were to be anxious
in that regard,
that would be negative.
It wouldn’t be appropriate,
would it?
So how can we show
this wholesome concern
or anxiety for one another?
Well, over the years,
The Watchtower has made
many comments on this.
But perhaps we could say
there are four different things
that we could do that would show
this mutual concern.
The first one is
to take personal interest
in others.
Yes, genuine interest,
not just asking them,
“How are you?”
and not waiting for an answer
but trying to see
what’s happening in their lives
and show concern for them.
The second way
is by noting things
that they do or say
that we can commend
and then encourage them.
So looking for opportunities
to encourage one another
is another way that we show
that we have this mutual concern.
The third way
that was mentioned
in our text comments
this morning
is that we need to try and see
the potential
in others for good.
We can think
of the example of Barnabas.
Remember, Mark disappointed
both Barnabas and Paul
during the first missionary journey,
and yet Barnabas
didn’t give up on him.
He saw there was some
potential there for Mark to be better,
to be used in a more interesting way
in the future.
So Barnabas
encouraged that quality
in Mark, and, of course,
we realize what the result was.
Later Mark was very useful
not only to Barnabas
but also to Paul, and,
of course, he had the privilege
of writing an account
of Jesus’ life.
So, what a wonderful privilege he had.
So like Barnabas,
we need to look at younger ones,
newer ones,
and even everybody
to see if we can see
potential for improvement
and then encourage them
to be able to reach out
for further activity.
The fourth point
we’d like to mention
is the need for us to show
confidence in others.
The apostle Paul
was a good example of this.
If we take our Bibles
and turn to the book of Hebrews,
and you remember
when Paul was writing
to the Hebrew Christians,
there were many things he had
to mention that were negative.
For example,
some were drifting away;
they were distracted.
Others had allowed
their hearts to harden.
Yet others
really were still immature
when it came
to Christian living.
They were feeding, as it were,
on ‘the milk of the word.’
They couldn’t eat properly
in a spiritual sense.
So those things could have perhaps
played on Paul’s mind,
and perhaps he could have
become quite negative.
But notice in Hebrews 10:39
what Paul says
to these brothers and sisters,
Hebrews 10:39:
“Now we are not the sort
who shrink back to destruction,
but the sort who have faith
for the preserving of our lives.”
Now, isn’t that
a positive comment?
A positive comment
made to those
who perhaps
were neglecting to do
certain things
that they should have done.
And we notice there too
that Paul says:
“Now we are not the sort.”
So he includes himself
along with these other brothers.
How could Paul
have such confidence
when writing
to those who needed
such a lot of counsel?
Well, The Watchtower
made two points.
It said:
First of all, Paul tried;
he endeavored to imitate
the viewpoint of Jehovah God.
Jehovah looks
at imperfect humans,
he sees their potential,
and he has confidence
that if they want
to do what’s right,
with his help
they’ll be able to do it.
And the second area
that Paul was able
to trust in was holy spirit.
He realized
that with holy spirit,
someone can gain the power
beyond what is normal
and overcome all sorts
of fleshly desires and problems.
So those two reasons then
—Paul’s endeavoring
to imitate Jehovah
and also his belief
in the power of holy spirit
—helped him to be confident,
to be positive with regard
to those brothers and sisters.
So, what can we see with regard
to us giving a good word
at the right time?
Well, we need to have
mutual concern for one another.
Not the type of concern
that we’re busybodies
or meddlers
in other people’s affairs.
But what were
those four points?
First of all,
take personal interest in others,
commend and encourage them,
see the potential in them for good,
and then express confidence.
If we do that,
then we can be sure
that in a positive way
each one of us
is showing mutual concern.